[00:00:00.000] I really love it.
[00:00:10.650] Today's going to be slightly a bit of a different episode. I've been, you could say,  nuddling away on a lot of things in the background on Everfund. One of these subject areas that  always comes up that I'm always interested to try and share more about is scripts. When you build a  website, you know, if it's a standard blog or even a SaaS app, you're probably going to be installing  loads of script by a marketing department if you have one or just by your customers. Maybe that's
[00:00:40.650] building a script out at Everfund and it has been one hell of a journey and this is something that  I wanted to explore in an episode with Anthony and just really talk over the biggest pitfalls  that I've found, the biggest like head scratches, why do we do it this way, how do you even make a  script for your company. It's kind of this black magic that I think nobody's really described a  best way of doing and we've all just kind of made it up along the way and it all just works because  obviously it's JavaScript but I think it's a really interesting subject area that I wanted to
[00:01:10.650] down with you and explore? Yeah, it's something I definitely don't know much about. I've never  had to write a third party script or really integrate a third party script too much. I've  definitely done things with like my dev blog or my hash node blog that would be stuff like that.  But they kind of give you the ability to just like plug and play things. I have something that can  like track reads and then I get like micro payments or something and I get like $3 a year
[00:01:40.650] they're basically black boxes to me and the thing is this is actually what makes it more interesting  the way they kind of can be hosted means that they technically don't have to be open source  they can keep all the source code obviously how they make the scripts behind their private  repositories and then only give you a bundled version i've actually seen that with a few and  others like for example version controlling is another one there's so many questions here so i
[00:02:10.650] How do you make a script that can run on the internet?  So outside of your own domain, outside your own website, and it runs some JavaScript on  someone else's website.  The first step to do that is you got to work out what you want to write.  If you want to write TypeScript or JavaScript, you can bundle further libraries into it,  like Svelte and even React if you want to make a really quite heavy script.
[00:02:40.650] JavaScript. And this is actually really interesting because I found it actually really hard to actually  just use plain vanilla JavaScript to build this script because you're so used to abstracted  libraries on how to build these things that when you actually have to use the core JavaScript,  it really is empowering at the same time. So the biggest thing is you have to start somewhere.  And some people have open source scripts. I have mine open source, so you can always look at the
[00:03:10.650] this episode to what I have built. And it first starts with a micro bundler, i.e. a bundler. And  that needs to output whatever that JavaScript is. So say it's just, we're going to go really simple  and all it is, is a function that says, hello world. You've tested it and it runs. So then you  need to bundle it. How the internet actually works is, as you know, JavaScript can be bundled into
[00:03:40.650] how weird the internet is, is UMD. And this has caused so many problems. So Anthony, do you know  what UMD is? I've heard of UMD. And I've heard of all of these module things because I've listened  to like podcasts, like read blog posts about the history of it. It's actually a really good one by  Tyler McGinnis that we'll link to in the show notes. But I know that the main thing is that  you had a module definition for node, which was common JS. And so that's the one that most people
[00:04:10.650] and to have that kind of syntax. So everything that could work on NPM could work everywhere else.  But then you also had things that were meant to work in the browser, which I believe was originally  AMD, which was asynchronous module definition. And then that eventually kind of morphed into  ESM, which is ECMAScript. And I've heard of UMD, but I thought that ECMAScript is what the browsers  were supposed to be implementing. And this UMD repo that we'll also link to that you sent me,
[00:04:40.650] the standard that's being used. It's really weird because you'll build your script if you're using  something like TSDX is what we originally built with it would spit out two versions your common  JS and your ASM and you're like that's it done we're done here we have the script and then you  actually try to load it into a website using one of these interesting loader functions where you  like basically have the script on a URL and the javascript is basically to inject the script onto
[00:05:10.650] call it to initialize it what these load scripts are every one of them tend to look the same if  you did that with a common js module it would just error and say i don't know what to do this isn't  working this reference isn't there that's why you have to actually bundle down to umd currently well  so what would happen if you just did regular ecma script ecma script modules where would it error  there so common js erred that's esm right ecma is that esm no so common js is the require one is
[00:05:40.650] variable and then you do require and then you require the dependency whereas esm you do import  use the import keyword and then from and then whatever you want to import from so i'll be  curious what would happen if you just tried to just write it like you would like react when you're  just like importing stuff like that that is ecma script modules so what happens if you try and do  that well i think the simplest answer is that i don't really know because i don't think i can  compile to ecma script we don't need to compile to ecma script because the browser just it's built
[00:06:10.650] into the browser it's built into the browser yeah so maybe my big problem here was that i was using  typescript first is that you've obviously got to bundle out typescript i compile down this is  actually quite an interesting question because this is the thing ecma script i didn't actually  try all my headaches and all my problems all came off of bundling extra modules into the code umd
[00:06:40.650] deprecated but we're now leaning more to ESM modules what you tend to find with a tool like  micro bundler is that when it bundles the code it will bundle it to UMD common JS and ESM they're  the three that it bundles down to and I don't know why it doesn't bundle down to ECMAScript.  No ESM is ECMAScript. ESM is ECMAScript modules. So it is. So that should work on everyday browsers
[00:07:10.650] actually a really interesting question as well is support we did a can i use on esm modules and it  says to me 93 of the users of the internet can use esm because ie11 doesn't support it and then  opera mini doesn't support it and that's pretty much it and then obviously earlier versions of  chrome we're now on chrome 100 and chrome 60 was the last one that didn't so this is also another
[00:07:40.650] okay to deprecate the older version because we have a bundled version of ESM and UMD and the UMD  version is actually bigger in terms of script size because it's using older JavaScript terms.  When is the right time to define that you're going to only use ESM? Because this is a script that  you need to work every time. 100% of the time you need to work, you need to load your function
[00:08:10.650] esm well that's 92 of the websites is eight percent of websites it not loading on okay and  that's a really good question well it depends would you have the ability to show a message saying  this requires chrome to work no i think you'll just error and be like i can't even compile this  javascript in the browser couldn't you do a polyfill though hmm probably the problem with  polyfills is that you also have to bundle that with a script oh no unless you bundle it outside
[00:08:40.650] a super interesting thing as we're debating all this when you search how to build a widget there's  hardly any articles out there compiling it down like this was actually really interesting was that  when I used micro bundler and said output umd files it couldn't even do it it would give you  a file that wasn't valid so then I had to use roll up to specifically make umd files I have
[00:09:10.650] bundle for UMD. Why is this really important? In the world of Everfund, we make a WordPress plugin,  and that's scary. No, I'm joking. But we need this plugin to work on every website. And this was  actually also a massive problem, was actually getting it working on WordPress, because WordPress  did some funky things with it as well about hosting. So we went with the UMD option. We also  chose the option to have it open source. So the source code is open. And then we also hosted it
[00:09:40.650] NPM. So what you tend to see in the industry is that some people will host the script privately,  say on an S3 bucket that's cached. You see that with Cani, Intercom, and then you have the other  route that is basically using a CDN, an NPM CDN. And have you ever used one of these NPM CDNs?  Yeah, just a couple of times, like on package. There's actually, there's an ECMAScript one,
[00:10:10.650] you want to do something like a code sandbox and you want to pull something without having a build  step yeah and this is actually really weird because i feel like we're in between like multiple  ways of doing javascript i you could just npm install or you could just load the script in the  browser what is the better way this is actually a really interesting one because as somebody  building a script you could do either for everfund you could install it as an npm package and import
[00:10:40.650] using the UMD file. And actually, you'd be better to import it into your JavaScript bundle because  it would be smaller because using the common JS bundle, not the UMD bundle. So what's stopping you  from just taking all of the code and just like literally copy pasting it into the script tag on  your website? That's an interesting one. What's stopping you? I don't think there is anything  stopping you because if it's in UMD, it should technically all run because it's in a format,
[00:11:10.650] people and be like hey install this 200 line 300 line script into your website it's fine and that's  actually the hardest point what we're doing with all this is trying to create the best developer  experience i want to plug and play i want to get a chat widget onto my website what is in your eyes  the most easiest way to get it onto the website is that npm installing it into your react packet  into your react website and then doing it like a jsx component is that loading it with a hook is
[00:11:40.650] importing it through html and a script tag this is a really weird thing because there's so many  ways to get the same functionality the next really big thing about it all that i think is actually  quite confusing is why do we do it this way so what i mean by that is we spoke about the problems  i want to be like a verbal tutorial at the same time you know what i mean of like how do you do  all these things sure you really want to i want to give like a compelling episode that talks about
[00:12:10.650] I've actually like struggled with but how do you actually make it compelling you know what I mean  oh I'm already compelled you're compelled okay okay this is actually something worth saying so  this is actually really interesting moment to also talk about is that you've made your script now  how do you demonstrate that are you just going to give your customers a html version so saying  install it from the cdn go that's one way and then how about installing into react react is also
[00:12:40.650] works with everything and what we found with everfund is that we've created two sdks we've  created a javascript sdk that is core js and then we've created a react sdk that hooks into react  we speak so much about the differences in frameworks about a virtual dom yep react does  everything differently so we have to use the virtual dom and what we actually find is the  common js library the javascript sdk is only about i think 2 000 kilobytes the react version
[00:13:10.650] like four, five, six megabytes, I think.  So much, much bigger.  Off the top of my head, I'm terrible with numbers, as we all know.  But this is actually where I've been talking about in the past  about learning experiences with other frameworks.  How do you then get your script into another framework?  So say Vue or Svelte, it's actually quite easy.  And it's surprisingly simple.  Yeah, because they just have script tags  and they pretty much just function like HTML pages would, unlike React.
[00:13:40.650] Exactly. You just install it and then you bind it to a function and it's done. This was actually  kind of crazy. And it's speaking about the web as a whole, as in like when you're building something  for your customers. So it's not an experience that you control, let's say like a dashboard,  but something to go on their website, you've got to kind of like mold everything that won't get  overridden, i.e. encapsulated, i.e. CSS, functions, variables. You then need to make sure that it can
[00:14:10.650] into frameworks of choice in the best way possible. You also then need to make sure you have like a  UMD version that could be imported into things like WordPress websites, websites that don't use  a lot of JavaScript. And all this starts to look like a really big puzzle on how do you actually  do it. The first step, how we did it in Everfund is we wrote a class with a new, so new class.
[00:14:40.650] a id click so for a button say if you put an id of like open pop-up we'd watch that id when it  gets clicked we would then hijack that click and run all of our custom functionality that was  necessarily quite easy but actually the hard part that actually took longer was working out the css  solution before i speak about css solution if you were to inject say some code onto another website
[00:15:10.650] make easy a form how would you inject a form onto a website you use netlify forms so you're going to  use netlify forms so you're going to load an iframe and this is actually really interesting  what is the better strategy do you build the form out of html on the web page so you're actually  building into the dom or do you iframe tarshan at user vitals has done the opposite to me i believe
[00:15:40.650] It loads our Next.js website, but Tarshan's user vitals, I believe, builds the actual content into the web page.  So you have multiple more complexes.  Until portals comes out.  Until portals. This is also the savior of everything. Portals, whenever that will be.  And check out episode nine for more on portals.  The biggest problem to this is communication to your server.
[00:16:10.650] you use the method built into the website's DOM because you are then sending a web call from that  URL, if that makes sense. But if it's an iframe, it doesn't get course blocked because it's working  inside that website. So what's the pros and cons to each? When it's an iframe, you tend to have a  lot less of a JavaScript bundle, i.e. what you're building, because really what you're then building
[00:16:40.650] the website inside render and that's actually you know good enough for most use cases and it was in  everfund's donation widget so what do you gain and what do you lose what you gain is that you  control the website every time the website changes you don't have to push a new version of the script  publicly you just update the website because you know the loader doesn't change but then if a user
[00:17:10.650] it's going to be impossible because you can't edit CSS inside an iframe. That's when you would  then have to put CSS, like a CSS import into your website that could then allow them to inject their  own CSS. So you see that there's, it's not an easy picture no matter what you pick and providing a  really good experience is really, really hard. So why is there not a startup trying to fix this
[00:17:40.650] web standards i think but also do we all know the correct abstraction is there a correct abstraction  we also kind of maybe seen this in other people's work as well we recently had a person on from  quick yesterday and he was saying that he is building a language that can compile to any  language i.e to web and all these other things depending on the framework there's all these
[00:18:10.650] a SaaS startup is too much and it's actually we should just have a really good starter that's  really highly starred on GitHub that everybody just uses. Sounds like something you can do after  all this stuff you've done. Potentially yes. Everfund's donation widget is not actually done.  Our SDK. We're actually just starting our SDK. Our SDK today is just opening our donation widget in  an iframe but what we're moving to right now and what we're building on is extending that into a
[00:18:40.650] So that then will allow anybody to completely build their own UI on top of all of our functionality.  And then what we've turned our SDK into is this script that one, loads a script.  Two, initializes classes that will then be allow you to create and take donations for charities in a headless way.  And what that involves is extending the classes functions to then do REST calls as well.  Not too hard.
[00:19:10.650] core functions i you know i might do a rest call on an api click or load an iframe but the way web  standards is it all can get really muddy really fast because there's so many ways of doing anything  if that makes sense like what's the right way what's the right way to create a script this is  a really good question where would i say start i would be nice i would say probably go look at  everfund's javascript sdk because we actually open source it so you could bundle it yourself
[00:19:40.650] And second, we've made loads of examples that has it bundled in so you can actually try it and then build one for yourself off of it.  That's what I'd say would be a great first step is because I've gone through a lot of headaches getting that to this point that it actually bundles and works on every single browser, every single web platform.  We had problems where our donation widget just would not work on WordPress.  The code would be there.  The script tag would be in the page and it just wouldn't work.
[00:20:10.650] JavaScript problem? Is this a WordPress problem? You know, you're looking at the code. And what  made it weirder is that it worked on some WordPress websites, but not others. And you're like,  why is it doing that? Because there's different versions of WordPress. And some people let their  WordPress sit forever and never update it. And other people are like, well, I need to update it  because it has nine vulnerabilities in it now. And that's why you're going to have a huge spread of  different types of WordPress sites. Yeah, this was the latest version of WordPress. So almost
[00:20:40.650] Solution to this was actually not to call a JavaScript CDN, but to host the script inside the WordPress instant.  It almost was like the WordPress instant was blocking the script communicating with the web.  It was really weird edge case that we managed to solve by bundling the script inside the WordPress tag.  Really, you could say this was a real 20, 25 minute ramble.  There's also other subjects that I did want to talk about in this episode for sure.
[00:21:10.650] where do you go and how do you start and what to do because i think so far the evolution of fs jam  has been we've been speaking to so many frameworks advocates and we love doing all them things but  me and anthony also love to chat to each other and just talk about technology i feel like we need  another deep dive without a guess to talk about the blockchain again now that you work at a web
[00:21:40.650] really try and make it easy not necessarily every episode is gonna now just be me and Anthony but I  think it'll be great once in a while to try to start exploring other subjects let other people  maybe learn from these subjects you know if there's a subject you want us to talk about  potentially ask us another good subject I think to talk about this can be just ourselves or it  could be someone else with us is documentation you've wrote a lot of documentation but how do
[00:22:10.650] a SaaS product. You wrote your SDK that we've just been speaking about and now you need to document  it. How do you document it? Well, we've had Docosaurus on, we've had Tanner Lindsay on.  These two people build really good documentation separately. I Docosaurus builds the website,  Tanner Lindsay built his own. But actually, how do you write really good documentation? And actually,  how do you get people to understand it? That's one thing I want to sit down and really ask you one
[00:22:40.650] docs specification, but there is a docs system divio, I think it is, they break it down to  tutorials, explanation, reference, and how to's. And I remember I came up with kind of my slightly  different namings for this, because I think that tutorials and how to sounds like the same thing  to people. So that's a little confusing. The main thing is that like, you'll have a reference would  just be like an API reference. So you have like every single method you can call and then everything
[00:23:10.650] would be like this, what we're doing here in a podcast, like explaining something and just kind  of in like prose or normal language, maybe with or without some code examples. And then how to guide  would be how to do something specific. So like for Redwood, this would be like, how do you connect  Redwood to file storage? Or how do you make a third party API call? And then tutorial is something  that is meant to teach you something as you go throughout the processes, like the Redwood
[00:23:40.650] the end, you don't really have like a quote unquote production app that really does anything  that fancy, but it gets you to understand the entire framework along the way. So I think that's  a pretty good way to separate the different types of documentation you can write. And then you want  to make sure those categories are then easily represented on your actual doc sites, people  then can navigate and know how to find things. Yeah, documentation is, as you just said,
[00:24:10.650] Tried DocuSaurus. We tried rolling our own solution, but now we're actually using Readme.  Have you heard of Readme? Readme.io? I've heard of it. I know there's like,  there's Gitbook also. There's a lot of these. I have not used Readme myself, but I think it's  one that if I saw it, I would recognize like the look because I read so much documentation.  Yes. Well, we're using it with Everfund. This is actually something that I think is super,  super important. It's like with that, we're building a open REST API for Everfund as well.
[00:24:40.650] and finding a documentation platform that makes the REST API documentation look as good as the  actual rest of the documentation is something by itself. I think the real top level of documentation  is Stripe. We could all want to be like Stripe, but they obviously spend a lot of money being like  that. There's so many subject areas that we always want to talk about and getting around to them is
[00:25:10.650] for Remix Conference. How are you feeling about that, Anthony? Oh, I'm stoked. Yeah, there's going  to be a lot of people there that I know. Michael Chan, Eshawn, both of which have been on the show,  and then Austin Krim, who works at Prisma. We'll be hanging out with him for a bit. Some other  people as well. Yeah, so I'm looking forward to it. I am not going to be speaking. I won't be,  like, really doing much, quote-unquote, like, work stuff. It won't be really, like, a work
[00:25:40.650] is going to be there as well. So Jen will get to meet a lot of my friends, which will be cool.  We'll get to meet her. That'd be very cool. My partner is very jealous that I'm going to the  United States. I'm sadly taking my business partner instead of my actual partner, but she's  going away to a five star resort in Greece instead. So I'm sure she's not missing out that much.  Something else that I quickly wanted to talk about on air is how we feel about the podcast,
[00:26:10.650] feel about always having guests on i've not broached this conversation with you before having  this conversation but i think it's actually quite cool to have it very open very you know have your  thoughts in the air yeah i mean i enjoy these episodes i was saying the last time we did this  that i wish we did these more often so yeah i can see us doing this maybe like once every other  month or something like that and then get a good cadence because the main thing is just like there's  so many guests that we would like to have on so we always want to like keep space for them and then
[00:26:40.650] value from our conversations, but they'll also get a lot of value from being exposed to new projects  and new people and their ideas. Because if you've been listening to us for a while, you probably  will know our opinions about a lot of things at this point. But there is still stuff that I think  that we could probably talk about that we haven't really dove into too much. But yeah, and then I  think something else that you probably were getting to here is that we're considering sponsors for the  first time. And so it's likely that we'll be bringing on some different companies and having
[00:27:10.650] little ad read in the beginning of the show that you're welcome to skip if you want. But it's going  to really make this a lot more sustainable for us because it's something that we've been both doing  as a labor of love, really, myself, especially putting quite a few hours each week on it to make  it happen. So that is something that I have hesitated to do. But I think as long as they're  companies that I feel confident promoting, then I think I won't feel too bad about it. And then
[00:27:40.650] commercials and podcasts. So yeah, if people have any ideas of who we should sponsor or anything  like that, feel free to shoot us a message on Twitter and let us know. Those will likely be  coming in the next couple of weeks or a month. Yeah. And this is something that I wanted to  ask. What's your opinion on having products, frameworks on the podcast that you could  openly endorse? Are the episodes we have where one of us is so far deep in the area, almost
[00:28:10.650] alienating if that makes sense so what i mean is let's take an area something that we're both really  really knowledgeable at and say redwood so if you listen to our episodes about redwood we say it's  the best thing ever you're never gonna have a problem and you know you should go out today and  you should build in redwood no we don't say that i specifically don't say i'm a responsible advocate  and i would never say that responsible advocacy that's more what i'm trying to guess at is when
[00:28:40.650] Developer advocacy is a lot of the people we get on.  And yes, they are trying to get you to understand their product, understand what they're doing,  and also give some value.  So as a developer advocate yourself, we kind of sit on both ends.  I'm a founder of a company.  You're a developer advocate.  How do you feel about almost having these episodes being, you know, pitches?  All these guest episodes, are they pitches in your eyes or are they you want to learn  something without necessarily buying the product?
[00:29:10.650] So if you're doing DevRel correctly, you are always educating first, and then the awareness  is downstream of the education.  So that's why the types of advocates that I bring on to this show, they are always going  to be associated with a framework or a product or something that they are there to talk about.  That's the whole point.  We have an episode about a subject, usually not about a person.  But if they actually are trying to lift up the developer community and not just shill
[00:29:40.650] valuable. So for me, I haven't had much problems with this, because I have had a pretty good handle  on who are the advocates out there and who could we invite on because many of the people we've had  on the show, I've listened to them do like 10 podcasts before, you know, so I had a pretty  good idea of who I would feel comfortable bringing on and most of the projects, I've
[00:30:00.000] you know, were things that I'd already used or at least tried or felt pretty confident about.  I think I've had a fairly good track record on that for the most part. And I feel good about  the sum total of both guests here and stuff I've written about. The only thing I can think of that  I really regret having ever promoted and like actually deleted my blog post by it because like,  I don't want anyone to like read this and find this is Quovery. I will officially renounce
[00:30:30.000] basically put you in a position where you have like a hundred dollar kubernetes bill you have  no idea what to do it's a nightmare do not ever use it and that's the thing of as we just spoke  about making the podcast more sustainable when it comes to advertisements should every word come out  of our mouth be believed to get a podcast advertisement on should we have used the product  should we know the product or is it okay to just recommend the product from a podcast these are
[00:31:00.000] host have these kind of questions but what's your thoughts on that i somebody comes along you've  never heard of their tech company well you've heard of it but you've never used it yourself  and they're like we'll give you some money you go give us your listeners how does that feel to you  yeah and this is something that comes up significantly more in the blockchain web3  world because there's so much money floating around people want to get their stuff out there  so much so the question of trust is huge here and how do you know whether to trust someone how do you
[00:31:30.000] signal trust. And for me, because I already going back to last thing I said, I already knew the  ecosystem really well. So I already had a good handle on who to trust. But then if anyone ever  came to us who we'd never heard of, usually I would just, you know, talk to them for a little  bit. And then I would check out their product. If they had other material, I would check that out.  And usually I'll get a sense just from kind of chatting with people, whether they knew what  they were talking about, if they're going to be a good guest, like Jake Ginevan is a good example
[00:32:00.000] He just kind of messaged me out of the blue on the Jamstack Slack, rest in peace.  And he was just like saying, yeah, I really like the podcast.  He was like talking to me about and he was talking about his past and how he did all  this like SSR stuff for this, you know, like Australian news company.  And very quickly, I was like, all right, this dude like knows what he's talking about.  This guy is a very, very experienced engineer.  So yeah, you just got to like take enough time to actually like vet someone and just  like do a gut check on someone.  If you are already experienced and you know what to look for and you know the telltale
[00:32:30.000] you too long but you gotta do at least some kind of baseline level of vetting before you just like  let anyone come on your podcast and that's partly what our job is to make sure we don't just bring  anyone onto the podcast let them say anything to you because we think that having our listeners  value our opinion what we choose to bring to the podcast is really important and that's why we're  having this conversation on air it's not only our opinions it's also your opinion as the listener  what do you think about this what do you think about the future me and anthony both want to make
[00:33:00.000] possible one of my favorite podcasts ever hello internet had the kind of opinion of it's up to  the co-host you choose to listen or you don't you don't have a choice if they want to quit  podcasting and never do another episode that's it and it is a relationship who do i have a  relationship with when i think about fs jam do i have a relationship with anthony or do i have a  relationship with me anthony and also the listeners are they part of the relationship do they matter
[00:33:30.000] that I speak to say, I know about the podcast. I've listened to the podcast. It's building that  relationship with people. And it's kind of about, you know, you could say it's weird about  celebritism, about having one side of relationships. That's called a parasocial relationship is a great  term. Yeah. A parasocial relationship. But as I was saying, it's like, I want to make the podcast  as sustainable as possible. Something I'm interested in is that when we go to Utah,
[00:34:00.000] shirts is this something the listeners are interested in would you want us to spit out a  teespring shop so you could buy an fs jam t-shirt to support the podcast advertisements we're going  to start looking at sponsorships as a way to make fs jam more sustainable and the biggest part of it  is obviously anthony anthony has edited every single podcast from day one and i'm forever grateful of
[00:34:30.000] paid but to be respected compensated yes because that makes everything more sustainable in this  world when you're doing something for free it's a lot harder to prioritize it and i think that is  very very important but before we close this out what's been your favorite episode in the last few  months what's been your highlight since we've lasted one of these episodes that's a good question  i liked the hydrogen episode that was a really interesting one because i didn't know anything
[00:35:00.000] it. But I knew that if Shopify was putting together some sort of open source project,  it probably would be pretty legit. And then Josh is someone who like really had a lot of fantastic  open source experience. And he had a lot of great stuff to say. And then it wraps into like the  server component stuff, which we've been talking about since the show almost started. So there's a  lot of interesting kind of long term trends that were represented by that episode. And just the  fact that no one has done a podcast about hydrogen yet. That's one of the things that when I started
[00:35:30.000] get people on to talk about subjects that hadn't even been talked about yet on a podcast is the  same thing with Marco so I think that having the ability now and having a platform to bring someone  on like being able to see the projects that are coming up and be like hey this is something that's  going to be important and consequential people need to know about I can just reach out to that  person and say hey come on my podcast and it's pretty much a guaranteed yes at this point because  we have like such an established lineup of guests that we have pretty much everyone can go look at  it like oh yeah these guys look pretty legit like well they can see dots on so it obviously is a real
[00:36:00.000] And yeah, I would say I like the flight control episode as well, because that also feeds into a lot of the things we've been talking about, about deployments and how do you actually get a full stack Jamstack application online. I think those are probably my two best recent favorites.
[00:36:30.000] down and excel at what they've been doing and we've seen blitz evolve and move into this new  standard we've seen simon get hired by netlify we've seen brandon start his own company and being  y combinator this is like super exciting it's amazing to see how everybody's growing one of the  latest episodes we've done that i actually think wow every time is orta and ken c dodds ken c dodds
[00:37:00.000] React and JavaScript. And obviously Remix, that was the conversation that persuaded me to go to  Remix conference. And then second to that is Orta. Orta's worked on the TypeScript team for so long,  very, very knowledgeable, and he's really is a great resource and always willing to help people  as well. So they were two of my highlight episodes from the last few we've done. Anything else you  want to talk about before we close this one out? Of this massive ramble episode, it's kind of like a
[00:37:30.000] of just fun things that we want to speak about.  Yes, most of the episodes that we do together  usually end up turning into.  No, nothing else from me,  just that we appreciate all the listeners  who continue to listen to us.  I know that there's a decent chunk of people  that I hang out with on like discords  who like to listen to this.  So that's really great.  And I'm always wishing that I could put more time into this  and really get it on a better cadence.  But it's been tough,  especially as I've been like transitioning into my new job.
[00:38:00.000] we can get ourselves to a point where we're at least like consistently putting out an episode  every week because I say I've dropped the ball in quite a few weeks over these last couple months.  But we're also creating content for the long run. Like these are episodes that I think are just as  valuable to listen to like two years after the fact because even if the tech changes, the concepts  stay the same and the progression of how these things go is important as well. I think that even  if you're listening to a podcast about a technology that is not being used anymore, it can be useful
[00:38:30.000] because it can give you a better context of why are things the way they are now today. And that  is really the goal for me with doing stuff like this is creating a kind of historical record for  people who are going to be coming to web development for the first time years from now and are trying  to figure out what the heck is going on what any of this stuff is and why they need to know about  UMD and AMD and CJS and ESM and what any of that crap means. So yeah, feel free to just, you know,
[00:39:00.000] want to get in touch with us or suggest a topic or ask if you can speak on the podcast we're always  open as you're saying you know we'll kind of check you out and make sure you're legit but we're really  open to anyone being on here and talking about what they're doing if you're working on something  interesting the final thing i can say i can't believe we've got mishko on and we didn't even  speak about angular ones yeah i kind of wanted to but it was like quick is such an interesting  dense topic that i didn't want to kind of detract from it too much but yeah like he's a legend and
[00:39:30.000] work on JavaScript that has affected all of us.  So yeah, that was awesome.  It was really, really cool to have Mishka on.  Thank you to Ryan for making that connection for us.
[00:39:39.990] Yeah, that's it for now.  Until we speak again.
[00:39:42.720] Bye.  Bye.
[00:39:52.020] . . .
[00:40:13.140] Thank you.
[00:40:14.520] cool i'm sure you can edit that into something decent oh yeah